Adding wrapping-layouts guide (#7953)
gradio-app/gradio: guides/09_other-tutorials/wrapping-layouts.md

    self.main_layout.render()
```

This is a little confusing at first but if you think with the default implementation you can understand it easily.
Let's look at an example:

In the default implementation, we are doing this:

```python
with Row():
    left_textbox = Textbox(value="left_textbox")
    right_textbox = Textbox(value="right_textbox")
```

Pay attention to the Textbox variables. These variables' render parameter is true by default. So as we use ```with``` syntax and create these variables, they are calling the render function under the ```with``` syntax.

We know the render function is called in the constructor with the implementation from the ```gradio.blocks.Block``` class:

```python
class Block:
    # constructor parameters are omitted for brevity
    def __init__(self, ...):
        # other assign functions 

        if render:
            self.render()
```

So our implementation looks like this:

```python
# self.main_layout -> Row()
with self.main_layout:
    left_textbox.render()
    right_textbox.render()
```

So with calling the components' render functions under the ```with``` syntax, we are simulating the default implementation, actually.

> If we understand the below ```with``` syntax, let's move on the upper ```with``` syntax. For this, let's expand our example with ```Tab``` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So now let's consider two nested ```with```s to see how the outer one works. For this, let's expand our example with the ```Tab``` component:
```

```python
with Tab():
    with Row():
        first_textbox = Textbox(value="first_textbox")
        second_textbox = Textbox(value="second_textbox")
```

> Pay attention to the Row and Tab components this time. We have created the Textbox variables above and added them to Row with ```with``` syntax. Now we need to add the Row component to the Tab component. You can see that Row component is created with default parameters, so its render parameter is true, that's why the render function is going to be executed under the Tab component's ```with``` syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pay attention to the Row and Tab components this time. We have created the Textbox variables above and added them to Row with the ```with``` syntax. Now we need to add the Row component to the Tab component. You can see that the Row component is created with default parameters, so its render parameter is true, that's why the render function is going to be executed under the Tab component's ```with``` syntax.
```

To mimic this implementation, we need to call the ```render``` function of the ```main_layout``` variable after the ```with``` syntax of the ```main_layout``` variable.

So the implementation looks like this:

```python
with tab_main_layout:
    with row_main_layout:
        first_textbox.render()
        second_textbox.render()

    row_main_layout.render()

tab_main_layout.render()
```

The default implementation and our implementation are the same, but we are using the render function ourselves. So it requires a little work.

> Now, let's look at the ```attach_event``` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's take a look at the ```attach_event``` function.
```

2. Attach Event Function

    The function is left as not implemented because it is specific to the class, so each class has to implement its `attach_event` function.

```python
    # other LayoutBase implementations

    def attach_event(self, block_dict: Dict[str, Block]) -> None:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

> You can see what is the ```block_dict``` variable in the ```Application``` class's ```attach_event``` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the ```block_dict``` variable in the ```Application``` class's ```attach_event``` function.
```

### Application Class

1. Render Function

```python
    # other Application implementations

    def _render(self):
        with self.app:
            for child in self.children:
                child.render()

        self.app.render()
```

From the explanation of the ```LayoutBase``` class's ```render``` function, we can understand the ```child.render``` part.

> So let's look at the below part, why we are calling the ```app``` variable's ```render``` function? We are calling this render function because if we look at the implementation of this function in the ```gradio.blocks.Blocks``` class, we can see that it is adding the components and event functions into the root component. With another saying, it is creating and structuring the gradio application. So it is important to call this function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's look at the bottom part, why are we calling the ```app``` variable's ```render``` function? It's important to call this function because if we look at the implementation in the ```gradio.blocks.Blocks``` class, we can see that it is adding the components and event functions into the root component. To put it another way, it is creating and structuring the gradio application. 
```

2. Attach Event Function

    Let's see how we can attach events to components:

```python
    # other Application implementations

    def _attach_event(self):
        block_dict: Dict[str, Block] = {}

        for child in self.children:
            block_dict.update(child.global_children_dict)

        with self.app:
            for child in self.children:
                try:
                    child.attach_event(block_dict=block_dict)
                except NotImplementedError:
                    print(f"{child.name}'s attach_event is not implemented")
```

You can see why the ```global_children_list``` is used in the ```LayoutBase``` class from the example code. With this, all the components in the application are gathered into one dictionary, so the component can access all the components with their names.

> ```with``` syntax is used here again to attach events to components. If we look at the ```__exit__``` function in the ```gradio.blocks.Blocks``` class, we can see that it is calling the ```attach_load_events``` function which is used for setting event triggers to components. So we have to use the ```with``` syntax to trigger the ```__exit__``` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ```with``` syntax is used here again to attach events to components. If we look at the ```__exit__``` function in the ```gradio.blocks.Blocks``` class, we can see that it is calling the ```attach_load_events``` function which is used for setting event triggers to components. So we have to use the ```with``` syntax to trigger the ```__exit__``` function.
```

> Yes, we can call ```attach_load_events``` function without using ```with``` syntax, but the function needs a ```Context.root_block```, and it is set in the ```__enter__``` function. So we used ```with``` syntax here rather than calling functions ourselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, we can call ```attach_load_events``` without using the ```with``` syntax, but the function needs a ```Context.root_block```, and it is set in the ```__enter__``` function. So we used the ```with``` syntax here rather than calling the function ourselves.
```

## Conclusion

In this guide, we saw

- How we can wrap the layouts
- How components are rendered
- How we can structure our application with wrapped layout classes

> Because the classes used in this guide are used for demonstration purposes, they may lack optimizations or useful functionality. But this is the subject of another guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the classes used in this guide are used for demonstration purposes, they may still not be totally optimized or modular. But that would make the guide much longer! 
```

> I hope this guide helps you to gain another view to look at the layout classes and gives you an idea about how you can use them for your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope this guide helps you gain another view of the layout classes and gives you an idea about how you can use them for your needs. See the full implementation of our example [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/WoWoWoWololo/wrapping-layouts/blob/main/app.py).
```

- The `LayoutBase` class has four variables. Let's write them and the implementation of the constructor:
 
```python
class LayoutBase:
    main_layout: Block
    name: str
    global_children_dict: Dict[str, Block]
    renderables: list

    def __init__(self) -> None:
        self.main_layout = None
        self.name = "Layout Base"
        self.global_children_dict = {}
        self.renderables = []
```

- Here are the variables' definitions:

|       Variable       |              Type              | Definition                                                                                                                                        |
| :------------------: | :----------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|     main_layout      |      gradio.blocks.Block       | Stores the main layout from the gradio package of this class. For example, storing ```gradio.layouts.Row``` layout for the ```RowLayout``` class. |

> |         name         |              str               | Name of the class. Using to differentiate from other layouts and for debug purposes.                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|         name         |              str               | Name of the class. Used to differentiate from other layouts and for debugging purposes.                                                              |
```

| global_children_dict | Dict[str, gradio.blocks.Block] | Stores the children components with given name.                                                                                                   |
|     renderables      |              list              | Stores the renderable elements such as components and layouts.                                                                                    |

> ---------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Why are you using this line breaks everywhere? They don't look so good when they're rendered.

Reviewer: Maybe if you want to seperate the sections you can use numbers for the big headings and bullet points for the smaller ones?

- Now let's write the ```add_component``` function:

```python
    # other LayoutBase implementations

    def add_component(self, name: str, component: Block) -> None:
        self.renderables.append(component)
        self.global_children_dict[name] = component
```

- The ```component``` parameter can be Textbox, TextArea, or any component from the gradio package.
- If the `Block` class confused you, the components and layouts in the gradio package are inherited from the ```gradio.blocks.Block``` class eventually. This function is similar to ```gradio.blocks.BlockContext.add``` function which is used to add components to a list variable.
- The new component is added to ```renderables``` and ```global_children_dict``` variables. In the ```add_layout``` function, you will see why there are two different variables for the children components.

---------------------------------------------

- Let's implement the ```add_layout``` function:

```python
    # other LayoutBase implementations

    def add_layout(self, layout: LayoutBase) -> None:
        self.renderables.append(layout)
        self.global_children_dict.update(layout.global_children_dict)
```

> - As you can see, the ```global_children_dict``` variable is updating the dictionary with the added new layout's ```global_children_dict``` variable. With this functionality, the parent class includes all the components that children layouts have. You can see in the ```_attach_event``` function why this is important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As you can see, the ```global_children_dict``` variable is updating the dictionary with the added new layout's ```global_children_dict``` variable. With this functionality, the parent class includes all the components that children layouts have. You can see in the ```attach_event``` function why this is important.
```

- So let's implement the ```clear``` function:

```python
    # other LayoutBase implementations

    def clear(self) -> None:
        self.global_children_dict.clear()

        for renderable in self.renderables:
            if isinstance(renderable, LayoutBase):
                renderable.clear()

        self.renderables.clear()
```

- We choose the layouts from the renderables list variable and call the ```clear``` function of them. With this, we can be sure that all the objects that are stored are cleaned.

---------------------------------------------

- Now the last function we have to implement in the ```LayoutBase``` class is the ```attach_event``` function. The function is left as not implemented because it is specific to the class, so each class has to implement its `attach_event` function.

```python
    # other LayoutBase implementations

    def attach_event(self, block_dict: Dict[str, Block]) -> None:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

> - You can see what is the ```block_dict``` variable in the ```_attach_event``` function which is implemented in the ```Application``` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can see what is the ```block_dict``` variable in the ```attach_event``` function which is implemented in the ```Application``` class.
```

        self.main_layout = Row()

        self.global_children_dict[name] = self.main_layout

class ColumnLayout(LayoutBase):
    def __init__(self, name: str) -> None:
        super().__init__()

        self.main_layout = Column()

        self.global_children_dict[name] = self.main_layout

class TabLayout(LayoutBase):
    def __init__(self, name: str) -> None:
        super().__init__()

        self.main_layout = Tab(label=name)

        self.global_children_dict[name] = self.main_layout
```

- We are adding the ```main_layout``` variables to ```global_children_dict``` because we may want to reach them in the ```attach_event``` functions.
- We are not using the ```add_component``` function because we don't want them to be rendered in the ```render``` function, we are handling it already.

## Example

- Let's write a simple example to see how we can use the classes that we have created.
- In this example, we are going to use two tabs, one row and one column layouts.
- Row and column layouts are going to have two textboxes each.
- Row's and column's second textboxes are going to be attached to the row's first textbox's value.
- Here is the example we are going to write:

> <iframe
> 	src="https://huggingface.co/spaces/WoWoWoWololo/wrapping-layouts"
> ></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<gradio-app space="WoWoWoWololo/wrapping-layouts"></gradio-app>
```

- Let's start to write the example!

### RowExample Class

```python
def change_text(new_str: str):
    return Textbox(value=new_str)

class RowExample(RowLayout):
    def __init__(self, name: str) -> None:
        super().__init__(name=name)

        self.left_textbox = Textbox(
            value="Left Textbox", interactive=True, render=False
        )
        self.right_textbox = Textbox(value="Right Textbox", render=False)

        self.add_component("left_textbox", self.left_textbox)
        self.add_component("right_textbox", self.right_textbox)

    def attach_event(self, block_dict: Dict[str, Block]) -> None:
        self.left_textbox.change(
            change_text,
            inputs=self.left_textbox,
            outputs=self.right_textbox,
        )
```
- As you can see from the constructor of the ```RowExample``` class, we add the ```render=False``` argument when creating the Textbox variables. This is an important parameter to add because we are calling the render function ourselves, so we don't want it to be called in the constructor of the component.

> - [x] As a note; even if you don't assign False to the render variable, the program works and is structured correctly but it is a good practice I think.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a note; even if you don't assign False to the render variable, the program works and is structured correctly but it is a good practice I think.
```
